---
layout: archive
title: "Publications by theme"
permalink: /publications-themes/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /projects
---

{% include base_path %}

## Human Robot Interaction 
\*_Mostly about Telepresence Robots_
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Andriana Boudouraki, Dominic Price, Anna-Maria Piskopani, Pepita Barnard, Harriet Cameron, Horia Maior, Maria Galvez Trigo, Stuart Reeves, Joel Fischer. and Praminda Caleb-Solly. __2025__. _Please follow me to the next stop: a case study of planning, deploying and researching a robot-guided tour in a museum in the UK._ To appear in Extended Abstracts of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI'25). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3706599.3706660) \| [PDF](../files/chi25_robot_tour.pdf) ]
* Harriet Cameron, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Anna-Maria Piskopani, Pepita Barnard, Andriana Boudouraki, Praminda Caleb-Solly, Simon Castle-Green, Joel Fischer, Richard Hyde, Ayse Kucukyilmaz, and Horia Maior. __2025__. _Acceptability, Acceptance And Adoption Of Telepresence Robots In Museums: The Museum Professionals' Perspectives_ To appear In Proceedings of the 2025 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI'25). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3706598.3713533) \| [PDF](../files/chi25_telepresence_museums.pdf) ]
* Andriana Boudouraki and __Gisela Reyes-Cruz.__ __2024__. _An Interdependence Frame for (Semi) Autonomous Robots: The Case of Mobile Robotic Telepresence._ In Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 24, 1–5. [  [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3686038.3686059) \| [PDF](../files/tas24_interdependence_mrp_accessible.pdf) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Juan Martinez Avila, Eike Schneiders, and Andriana Boudouraki. __2024__. _Reimagining the Design of Mobile Robotic Telepresence: Reflections from a Hybrid Design Workshop._ In Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 31, 1–7. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3686038.3686055) \| [PDF](../files/tas24_telepresence_workshop_accessible.pdf) ]
* Junrui Hu, __Gisela Reyes Cruz__, Joel Fischer, and Horia Alexandru Maior. __2024__. _Telepresence Robots for Remote Participation in Higher Education._ In Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Meeting of the Symposium on Human-Computer Interaction for Work (CHIWORK '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 6, 1–14. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3663384.3663394) \| [PDF](../files/chiwork24_telepresence_accessible.pdf) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Isaac Phypers, Andriana Boudouraki, Dominic Price, Joel Fischer, Stuart Reeves, Maria Galvez Trigo, and Horia Maior. __2023__. _Augmented Robotic Telepresence (ART): A Prototype for Enhancing Remote Interaction and Participation._ In Proceedings of the First International Symposium on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS '23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 55, 1–6. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3597512.3597532) \| [PDF](../files/tas23_art_telepresence.pdf) ]
* Rucha Khot, Minha Lee, Alexandra Bejarano, Lux Miranda, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel E. Fischer, and Dimosthenis Kontogiorgos. __2024__. _Robo-Identity: Designing for Identity in the Shared World._ In Companion of the 2024 ACM/IEEE International Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1326–1328. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3610978.3638166) ]
* Eike Schneiders, Andriana Boudouraki, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Juan Martinez Avila, Houda Elmimouni, Jens Emil Grønbæk, Sean Rintel, and Swapna Joshi. __2023__. _Mobility and Utility in Robot Mediated Interaction: An Interactive Workshop for the Identification of Use Cases and Affordances of Telepresence Robots._ In 25th International Conference on Mobile Human-Computer Interaction (MobileHCI ’23 Companion), September 26–29, 2023, Athens, Greece. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3565066.3609791) ]

## Trust and Fairness
\*_From work part of the [TAS Hub](https://tas.ac.uk/)_
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Peter Craigon, Anna-Maria Piskopani, Liz Dowthwaite, Yang Lu, Justyna Lisinska, Elnaz Shafipour, Sebastian Stein, and Joel Fischer. __2024__. _"Like rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic"? Feasibility, Fairness, and Ethical Concerns of a Citizen Carbon Budget for Reducing CO2 Emissions._ In Proceedings of the 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 267–278. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3630106.3658904) \| [PDF](../files/facct24_carbon_budget_accessible.pdf)]
* Liz Dowthwaite, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Yang Lu, Justyna Lisinska, Peter Craigon, Anna-Maria Piskopani, Elnaz Shafipour, Sebastian Stein, and Joel Fischer. __2024__. _Technology for Environmental Policy: Exploring Perceptions, Values, and Trust in a Citizen Carbon Budget App._ In Proceedings of the Second International Symposium on Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (TAS '24). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 12, 1–13. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3686038.3686065) \| [PDF](../files/tas24_carbon_budget_accessible.pdf) ]
* Maria Jose Galvez Trigo, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Horia A. Maior, Cecily Pepper, Dominic Price, Pauline Leonard, Chira Tochia, Richard Hyde, Nicholas Watson, and Joel E. Fischer. __2023__. _"They’re not going to do all the tasks we do": Understanding trust and reassurance towards a UV-C disinfection robot._ Presented at: 32nd IEEE International Conference on Robot and Human Interactive Communication, IEEE RO-MAN 2023, Busan, South Korea, 28-31 August 2023. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1109/RO-MAN57019.2023.10309364) \| [PDF](../files/roman23_trust_uvc_robot.pdf) ]
* Liz Dowthwaite, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Ana Rita Pena, Cecily Pepper, Nils Jäger, Pepita Barnard, Ann-Marie Hughes, Roshan das Nair, David Crepaz-Keay, Sue Cobb, and et al. __2023__. _Examining the Use of Autonomous Systems for Home Health Support Using a Smart Mirror._ Healthcare 11, no. 19: 2608. [ [web](https://doi.org/10.3390/healthcare11192608) ]
* Cecily Pepper, __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Ana Rita Pena, Liz Dowthwaite, Camilla M Babbage, Hanne Wagner, Elena Nichele, Joel E Fischer. __2022__. _Understanding Trust and Changes in Use After a Year With the NHS COVID-19 Contact Tracing App in the United Kingdom: Longitudinal Mixed Methods Study._ J Med Internet Res 2022;24(10):e40558 [ [web](https://www.jmir.org/2022/10/e40558) ]

## Accessibility
\*_From my PhD on Visual Impairments_
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel E. Fischer, and Stuart Reeves. __2020__. _Reframing Disability as Competency: Unpacking Everyday Technology Practices of People with Visual Impairments._ In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1–13.  [ [web](https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376767) \| [PDF](../files/Reframing-disability-as-competency.pdf) \| [presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Pk3MzIe9NM) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel E. Fischer, and Stuart Reeves. __2022__. _Demonstrating Interaction: The Case of Assistive Technology_. ACM Trans. Comput.-Hum. Interact. 29, 5, Article 48 (October 2022), 37 pages. [ [web](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3514236) \| [PDF](../files/accessible-TOCHI-Demonstrating-Interaction.pdf) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel Fischer, and Stuart Reeves. __2022__. _Supporting Awareness of Visual Impairments and Accessibility Reflections through Video Demos and Design Cards._ In Nordic Human-Computer Interaction Conference (NordiCHI '22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 67, 1–15. [ [web](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3546155.3546697) \| [PDF](../files/nordichi22_visual_awareness_accessible.pdf) ]
* __Gisela Reyes Cruz__. __2021__. _Designing to Support and Extend the Competencies of People with Visual Impairments._ Extended Abstracts of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 68, 1–6. [ [web](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3411763.3443425) \| [PDF](../files/CHI2021-DC.pdf) \| [poster](../files/CHI2021-DC-poster.pdf) \| [presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SKjxuqtx62A) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel Fischer, and Stuart Reeves. __2020__. _New Approaches to Investigate Disability in HCI._ Accepted at the workshop: Nothing About Us Without Us: Investigating the Role of Critical Disability Studies in HCI (CHI’20). April 2020. [ [PDF](../files/New-Approaches-Workshop.pdf) ]
* __Gisela Reyes-Cruz__, Joel Fischer, and Stuart Reeves. __2019__. _An ethnographic study of visual impairments for voice user interface design._ Presented at the Workshop: Addressing the Challenges of Situationally-Induced Impairments and Disabilities in Mobile Interaction, CHI'19. May 2019, Glasgow, UK. [ [PDF](../files/Visual-impairments-and-voice-user-interface-design.pdf) ]